S Arya, Arya: Page number seventy-eight
S Arya, Arya: chapter twelve from Borodino.
S Arya, Arya: However, we brave it out. We men are a little breed
S Arya, Arya: war is the gambling of kings. Napoleon, the arch gambler, from that southern sea where men lacking cards or dies, and the money to buy either, will yet play a game of chance with the ten fingers that God gave them for another purpose.
S Arya, Arya: Napoleon had dealt ahead with every monarch in Europe before he met for the second time that northern advisory of cool blood who knew the waiting game.
S Arya, Arya: It is only where the stakes are small that the leisurely players, idly fingering, and the fallen cards written in fancy to set in points to this trick from, or the chance missed playing the game over again.
S Arya, Arya: But when the result is great it overshadows the game, and all Men's thoughts fly to speculations on the future.
S Arya, Arya: How will the loser meet his loss? What will the winner make office gain?
S Arya, Arya: The results of the Russian campaign were so stupendous to history that the historians of the day in their development,
S Arya, Arya: but rather to preserve these than the details of the war.
S Arya, Arya: Thus the student of today, in piecing together an impression of by one times within,
S Arya, Arya: inevitably find portions of his picture missing.
S Arya, Arya: As a matter of fact, no one can for certain
S Arya, Arya: say whether Alexander gently led Napoleon onward to Moscow, or was himself driven Theta in confusion by the concrete,
S Arya, Arya: as men who are not emperors must needs to in the stress of life. It is only in calm weather that the I is able to disconn things of our off and make ready,
S Arya, Arya: but in a storm the horizon is dimmed by cloud and spray.
S Arya, Arya: All Europe was so obscured at this time
S Arya, Arya: Napoleon's generals were scarcely social lights.
S Arya, Arya: They the hero of the retreat. The bravest of the brave was a rough man, who ate or flesh without troubling to cook it.
S Arya, Arya: Rep.
S Arya, Arya: Who dog defense of an abandoned city is without. Compare. In the story of war.
S Arya, Arya: Add the manage and the mind of a peasant.
S Arya, Arya: They had not much to say for themselves,
S Arya, Arya: as the Russians. Russia remains at this time the one European country, unhampered and unharrest by a tip test the one country where prominent men have a quiet Tongue
S Arya, Arya: page number Seventy-nine
S Arya, Arya: rest was silence. Neither could Soft nor Alexander ever stated clearly whether the retreat to Moscow was intentional or unavoidable, and these are the only men who knew.
S Arya, Arya: Perhaps Napoleon, you,
S Arya, Arya: at all events, he thought he did, or pretended to think it long afterwards at St. Helena, where Napoleon the Great was a consumeate liar.
S Arya, Arya: Be that as it may, the Russians retreated, and the French advanced further and further from their base.
S Arya, Arya: It was a great army, the greatest ever seen, for Napoleon had eight monarchs serving with the eagles, generals innumerable, many of them immortal, divorced the greatest strategic Prince Eugene, the incomparable lieutenant,
S Arya, Arya: the the fearless four hundred thousand men, and they carried with them only twenty days provision.
S Arya, Arya: They had marched from the Vistula, full of shipping across the Prigle, loaded with stores to the naming, where there was no navigation
S Arya, Arya: dancing behind them. That
S Arya, Arya: Gibraltar of the North
S Arya, Arya: was stored with provision enough for the whole army, but there was no transport, for the loads of
S Arya, Arya: Lithuania were unsuitable, for the heavy cards provided
S Arya, Arya: the country across the naming would scarce sustain its own sparse population, and had nothing to spare for an invading army.
S Arya, Arya: This had once been Poland, and was now
S Arya, Arya: in America to Russia, but Russia did not care, and the friendship of Lithuania was, like many human friendships which we make sacrifices to preserve not worth having.
S Arya, Arya: All the while the Russians retreated and strained, is still the French followed them. A king out of the twenty days provision.
S Arya, Arya: I will make them fight a battle and beat them, said Napoleon, and then the Emperor will sue for peace,
S Arya, Arya: but barclayed it. Holy continued to run away from the great battle. Then came the news that Barclay had been deposed that couldsoft was coming from the south to take command.
S Arya, Arya: It was true enough, and Barkley cheerfully served in a subordinate position with the new chief,
S Arya, Arya: like a man choosing his ground, coulds off that master of the waiting game
S Arya, Arya: early in September, would, at the impetuous leader of the pursuit, complained to. Then Saudi, that a camel recharge had not been pushed home.
S Arya, Arya: The horses have no patriotism, replied.
S Arya, Arya: The men will fight on empty stomachs, but not the horses,
S Arya, Arya: and Omnius reply. At the beginning of a campaign. While communications were still open,